Update Beatmap and Difficulties to underline the difference between two concepts (#4773)
ppy/osu-wiki: wiki/Beatmap/en.md

---
tags:
  - mapset
  - beatmapset
---

# Beatmap

## Overview

> A **beatmap** (sometimes called *beatmapset*) is a set of game levels, or [difficulties](#difficulty), that are composed of various [hit objects](/wiki/Hit_object) and represent a single song. It also includes other components, all packed in an archive with [the `.osz` extension](/wiki/osu!_File_Formats/Osz_(file_format)):

Reviewer: afaik you can use more than one song in a beatmapset (e.g., https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/72474#osu/207087) although idk the technical details of that

Author: it's possible, but at least forbidden by RC. I don't know the official status of this, but may add a very small note instead (like a single word)

> A **beatmap** (sometimes called *beatmapset*) is a set of game levels, or [difficulties](#difficulty), that are composed of various [hit objects](/wiki/Hit_object) and represent a single song. It also includes other components, all packed in an archive with [the `.osz` extension](/wiki/osu!_File_Formats/Osz_(file_format)):

Reviewer: nitpick; ignore if you disagree. this also goes for the other links like this
```suggestion
A **beatmap** (sometimes called *beatmapset*) is a set of game levels, or [difficulties](#difficulty), that are composed of various [hit objects](/wiki/Hit_object) and represent a single song. It also includes other components, all packed in an archive with the [`.osz` extension](/wiki/osu!_File_Formats/Osz_(file_format)):
```

- The song itself, stored in MP3 or OGG format.
- [Background images](/wiki/Beatmap/Background), or a video, acting as a playfield.

> - (optional) [Custom hitsounds](/wiki/Beatmapping/Hitsound) for arrangement and improved aural feedback.
> - (optional) [Storyboard](/wiki/Storyboards) with motion graphics and special effects, or a background story or theme for the song.
> - (optional) [Custom skin](/wiki/Skinning), which changes the appearance of interface and gameplay elements.

Reviewer: Nitpick; ignore if you disagree
```suggestion
- [Custom hitsounds](/wiki/Beatmapping/Hitsound) for arrangement and improved aural feedback (optional).
- [Storyboard](/wiki/Storyboards) with motion graphics and special effects, or a background story or theme for the song (optional).
- [Custom skin](/wiki/Skinning), which changes the appearance of interface and gameplay elements (optional).
```

> - (optional) [Custom skin](/wiki/Skinning), which changes the appearance of interface and gameplay elements.

Author: formats are (mostly) upper case, extenstions are lower case. accepted the rest

> Some of the visual and aural features of a beatmap may be disabled through the [visual settings](/wiki/Visual_Settings) overlay.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
*Note: Some of the visual and aural features of a beatmap can be disabled through the [visual settings](/wiki/Visual_Settings) overlay.*
```

## Difficulty

*Main article: [Difficulties](/wiki/Difficulties)*

> A difficulty is a file which describes the placement of hit objects, hitsounds, and special effects like [kiai time](/wiki/Kiai_time). It also contains [difficulty settings](/wiki/Beatmap_Editor/Song_Setup#difficulty) and other parameters that directly affect gameplay. Difficulties of a beatmap have different structure and skill requirements and sometimes may be played only in one [game mode](/wiki/Game_mode).

Reviewer: Might be worth mentioning star rating here?

> A difficulty is a file which describes the placement of hit objects, hitsounds, and special effects like [kiai time](/wiki/Kiai_time). It also contains [difficulty settings](/wiki/Beatmap_Editor/Song_Setup#difficulty) and other parameters that directly affect gameplay. Difficulties of a beatmap have different structure and skill requirements and sometimes may be played only in one [game mode](/wiki/Game_mode).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A *difficulty* is a file which describes the placement of hit objects, hitsounds, and special effects like [kiai time](/wiki/Kiai_time). It also contains [difficulty settings](/wiki/Beatmap_Editor/Song_Setup#difficulty) and other parameters that directly affect gameplay. Difficulties of a beatmap have different structure and skill requirements and sometimes may be played only in one [game mode](/wiki/Game_mode).
```

> A difficulty is a file which describes the placement of hit objects, hitsounds, and special effects like [kiai time](/wiki/Kiai_time). It also contains [difficulty settings](/wiki/Beatmap_Editor/Song_Setup#difficulty) and other parameters that directly affect gameplay. Difficulties of a beatmap have different structure and skill requirements and sometimes may be played only in one [game mode](/wiki/Game_mode).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A difficulty is a file with [the `.osu` extension](/wiki/osu!_File_Formats/Osu_(file_format) which describes the placement of hit objects, hitsounds, and special effects like [kiai time](/wiki/Kiai_time). It also contains [difficulty settings](/wiki/Beatmap_Editor/Song_Setup#difficulty) and other parameters that directly affect gameplay. Difficulties of a beatmap have different structure and skill requirements and sometimes can be played in only one [game mode](/wiki/Game_mode).
```

> ## Beatmap submission

Reviewer: Consider changing to just "Submission". This goes for all other "Beatmap [word]" headers as well
```suggestion
## Submission
```

*Main article: [Submission](/wiki/Submission)*

Beatmap authors can [submit](/wiki/Glossary#bss) their creations to the public [beatmap listing](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets). While every beatmap is attributed to [a single person](/wiki/Beatmap/Beatmapsets/Beatmapset_host), it is often a joint effort: some difficulties may be mapped by other people working [in collaboration](/wiki/Beatmap/Beatmap_collaborations) or [separately](/wiki/Beatmap/Beatmapsets/Guest_difficulty).

<!-- TODO: after https://github.com/ppy/osu-web/issues/5852 is resolved, this section will need an update -->

> After the submission, a beatmap gains additional metadata fields, such as description, language, genre, and the explicit content marker, which can be changed by the beatmap author themselves on the web site. The beatmap also acquires [title text](Title_Text), appearance of which may be altered with the aid of [NAT](/wiki/People/The_Team/Nomination_Assessment_Team).

Reviewer: NAT should be spelled out upon first appearance
```suggestion
After the submission, a beatmap gains additional metadata fields, such as description, language, genre, and the explicit content marker, which can be changed by the beatmap author themselves on the web site. The beatmap also acquires [title text](Title_Text), appearance of which may be altered with the aid of [Nomination Assessment Team (NAT)](/wiki/People/The_Team/Nomination_Assessment_Team).
```
or reversed if you prefer
```suggestion
After the submission, a beatmap gains additional metadata fields, such as description, language, genre, and the explicit content marker, which can be changed by the beatmap author themselves on the web site. The beatmap also acquires [title text](Title_Text), appearance of which may be altered with the aid of [NAT (Nomination Assessment Team)](/wiki/People/The_Team/Nomination_Assessment_Team).
```

Author: went with the third option (see below)

> After the submission, a beatmap gains additional metadata fields, such as description, language, genre, and the explicit content marker, which can be changed by the beatmap author themselves on the web site. The beatmap also acquires [title text](Title_Text), appearance of which may be altered with the aid of [NAT](/wiki/People/The_Team/Nomination_Assessment_Team).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After the submission, a beatmap gains additional metadata fields, such as description, language, genre, and the explicit content marker, which can be changed by the beatmap author themself on the website. The beatmap also acquires [title text](Title_Text), appearance of which may be altered with the aid of [Nomination Assessment Team](/wiki/People/The_Team/Nomination_Assessment_Team).
```

Author: not really, that's still [themselves](https://english.stackexchange.com/questions/216617/the-hidden-flaw-in-singular-they-what-to-do-about-reflexive-pronouns). for NAT, I'll go ahead and refer to the whole team instead of a single person, so 50-50

### Beatmap identification

> Every submitted beatmap is assigned a numeric identifier, or `BeatmapSetID`, by which it can be tracked on the web site and via [osu!api](/wiki/osu!api). Difficulties of a beatmap also have their own numeric identifiers, called `BeatmapID`. Both of these numbers may be seen in a URL leading to a specific difficulty's tab on a beatmap's page. It has the following format:

Reviewer: "it" is a little ambiguous
```suggestion
Every submitted beatmap is assigned a numeric identifier, or `BeatmapSetID`, by which it can be tracked on the web site and via [osu!api](/wiki/osu!api). Difficulties of a beatmap also have their own numeric identifiers, called `BeatmapID`. Both of these numbers may be seen in the URL leading to a specific difficulty's tab on a beatmap's page. Said URL has the following format:
```

> Every submitted beatmap is assigned a numeric identifier, or `BeatmapSetID`, by which it can be tracked on the web site and via [osu!api](/wiki/osu!api). Difficulties of a beatmap also have their own numeric identifiers, called `BeatmapID`. Both of these numbers may be seen in a URL leading to a specific difficulty's tab on a beatmap's page. It has the following format:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Every submitted beatmap is assigned a numeric identifier (`BeatmapSetID`), by which it can be tracked on the website and via [osu!api](/wiki/osu!api). Difficulties of a beatmap also have their own numeric identifiers (`BeatmapID`). Both of these numbers can be seen in an URL leading to a specific difficulty's tab on a beatmap's page. It has the following format:
```
might wanna link to BeatmapSetID and BeatmapID articles?

Author: they are scheduled for removal: https://github.com/ppy/osu-wiki/pull/4711#discussion_r550854245. I've also adjusted your comment to rephrase the last sentence
